What is a Virus
Not all scientists agree on the history of viruses or even whether they are actually “a living organism”. 
Biologists don’t agree even on where to place them on the “Tree of Life”. 
Viruses are very complex and come in many shapes and modes of action but they have the following generalized features in common:

They are a very, very, small — around 200 nanometers (nm) in length or circumference. 
How small is 200 nm? They are about a million times smaller than the head of a pin. 
So, yeah, they are pretty small. 
When first discovered, they were called, “ . . extremely small infectious particles” because microbiologist and other scientists did not know how to classify them.

All viruses are composed of a small piece of DNA, RNA or both. 
You remember DNA, the stuff made from nucleic acids, Crick and Watson, “double-helix”. 
As you remember, it is the memory bank that holds all the information necessary to make you — YOU. 
A virus is a short piece of DNA or RNA, or both wrapped inside a protein shell sometimes called an envelope, or just “enclosure structure”. 
The shape of the envelope is quite diverse and can be very complex.

Some viruses are very “sticky” and remain in spittle and adhere to surfaces like your hand or the deli countertop. 
You are exposed to sticky viruses when an infected person sneezes or coughs on you. 
There are thousands or millions of viruses in the water/mucus droplets (aka, “spittle”) expelled in a sneeze or cough. 
You are also exposed if you touch a surface where infected spittle landed like the movie theater candy counter. 
Some viruses are not sticky but can float in the air after being released in a sneeze or cough. 
As you could imagine, these are much more contagious than the sticky kind.

Viruses do not have the capacity to reproduce by themselves. 
They duplicate by drilling through the membrane of a living cell and inserting their piece of DNA, RNA or both into that living cell. 
Since there are about 6 gazillion cells inside each of us — new viruses have many to choose from.

The inserted piece of viral DNA or RNA then hijacks the human cell and forces it to make copies of the virus. 
The human cell makes many copies before it eventually dies and releases all of the newly made viruses. 
The new viruses are inert. 
They just float around in your blood stream, or climb aboard the spittle launching pad for an inter-host joy ride, until they find another cell to hijack.