As of 10 November 2020, the Government of the Republic of Indonesia has reported 444.348 persons with confirmed COVID-19. There have been 14.761 deaths related to COVID-19 reported and 375.741 patients have recovered from the disease. WHO is working with the Indonesian Government to monitor the situation and prevent further spread of disease.

This page shares information on coronavirus disease and advice for the public on how to keep healthy and prevent the spread of illness in Indonesia.

The Ministry of Health (MoH) of the Republic of Indonesia has taken actions to enhance response efforts for COVID-19 in Indonesia, referring to WHO interim guidance on the novel coronavirus. Please see the links below for MoH COVID-19 related information.

Maintain at least a 1-metre distance between yourself and others to reduce your risk of infection when they cough, sneeze or speak. Maintain an even greater distance between yourself and others when indoors. The further away, the better.
Make wearing a mask a normal part of being around other people.
Here are the basics of how to wear a mask:

Clean your hands before you put your mask on, as well as before and after you take it off.
Make sure it covers both your nose, mouth and chin.
Here are some specifics on what type of mask to wear and when, depending on how much virus is circulating where you live, where you go and who you are.

Wear a fabric mask unless you’re in a particular risk group. This is especially important when you can’t stay physically distanced, particularly in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor settings.
Wear a medical/surgical mask if you:
Are over 60,
Have underlying medical conditions,
Are feeling unwell, and/or
Are looking after an ill family member. 
For more public advice on masks, read our Q&A and watch our  videos. There is also a Q&A focused on masks and children.
For health workers, medical masks are essential personal protective equipment when engaging with patients with suspected, probable or confirmed COVID-19. Respirator masks (such as FFP2, FFP3, N95, N99) should be used in settings where procedures generating aerosols are performed and must be fitted to ensure the right size is worn.